# CTCC_Related_Analysis_Tools
In this repository, I will shared the tools I wrote for preparation of data for CTCC and HiC data analysis and visualization.
There are total of 5 category of tools. 
1. The first one contains the tool for sequencing data preparation, like trimming of reads in fastq file by the desired lenth, this will also trimmed the reads quality scores accordingly.
2. The second one contains the tools for analyzing the breaking location of genomic DNA by various method, such as restriction enzyme digestion, cryomilling and sonication, such information is retain the bam file of the mapped sequencing data. In CTCC, we used Biotinized adaptors to label DNA breaking ends and help proximity ligation and ligation junction enrichment. The use of these adaptors helps tracking of the DNA breaking generated by cryomilling and other methods. The algorithm used can also be used to track the breaking location of DNA by other methods such as sonication, which are widely used in ChIP-Seq and SPRITE.
3. The third one contains the tools for HiC pairs preparation, such as fitering of MPQ scores or trimming the reads to the desired ones, or subcompartment tagging for Hi pairs. 
4. The fourth one contains the tools for SPRITE Data analysis. SPRITE is a method developed by Quinodoz, S. A. et al(2018) for studying nuclear structure without proximity ligation. For visualization of Sprite data in Higlass, the data need to be processed and simulated like HiC pairs file
5. The fivth one contains tools for extraction peak and valley postion from a bedgraph file, such tool is useful for get the position of interest(such as valley and peak) for pileup assay in HiC analysis.

## How to use them?
1. make sure you installed the correct python version, currently only support python 3
2. copy and paste each python code to your text editor such as nano, ctrl + x to save the code to the desired name, such as xxx.py
3. make it excutable:   chmod +x xxx.py
4. make a customized folder you desired to store your own python code, such as my_own_python_code:   mkdir ~/my_own_python_code
5. move the python code you just created to the folder you just created:  mv ./xxx.py ~/my_own_python_code
6. add the following line path to the .bash_profile in the home directory, you can use nano or vim text editor to open the bash_profile file, replace the  
   export PATH=/Users/jiangxu/Documents/my_own_python_code:$PATH
## My personal recommendation:
1. data_trimming.py This python code will randomly trim the pairs file to the size you desired. Since HiC-Pro generated pairs file are sorted, it is thus not a good idea to just trim the data a few top lines to the desired size. To make the work done quickly, it is advisable to pool the pairs to a size slightly larger than the desired one using the HiC-Pro -i input_folder -o output_folder -c hic.config -s merge_persample
2. PairMPQ_filter.py This python code will filter the pairs file with mapping quality exceding certain threshold. It is quite useful if you don't want to rerun the HiC-Pro pipeline again to set it to the desired threshold. With this you can always set the mapping quality score to zero before running HiC-Pro and filter the pairs with PairMPQ_filter.py later to the desired MPQ threshold.

To be continued...
